## Provenance Information


```eval_rst

  .. warning:: This is an old version of the data standard. `See latest version <https://standard.openownership.org/en/latest/>`_.
```


```eval_rst
.. note:: 

    This page provide work-in-progress background documentation on the provenance approach taken in the standard.

```

### Design considerations

It is important to have access to provenance information about each of the statements made as part of a beneficial ownership disclosure.

Provenance information may be used in a number of ways, including:

* Identifying the source of information, and how it can be corrected;
* Deciding whether or not to trust a particular source of information;
* Signposting the documentary evidence on which data is based;
* Describing the ways in which data has been modified by source systems;

Any particular statement of provenance may have a range of scopes, including:

* **All the statements in a particular file**. For example, to describe that the statements were downloaded from the OpenOwnership.org database;
* **A group of statements**. For example, to describe the individual responsible for submitting information about a particular set of statements describing ownership of a single firm. 
* **A single beneficial ownership statement** - made up of entity, person and qualification statements. For example, to describe the point at which disclosure was made, and the steps taken to verify the information.
* **A single person statement**. For example, to describe how the information was obtained, and to link to any supporting documentation or verification of identification. 

These scopes are nested. For example, a person statement might be referenced within a beneficial ownership statement, within a group of statements, and within a particular file - and the provenance information from each of these scopes should be taken to apply to that person statement. 

### Modelling 

Following the [PROV-DM Provenance Data Model](https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-dm/) we model provenance in terms of Activities, Entities and Agents. 

A collection of statements, a beneficial ownership statement, and the individual statements that make this up are all considered to be **entities**. 

Each entity was derived from some **source** (also, in PROV-DM terms, an entity).

This source will have been generated by some **activity**, such as:

* A self-declaration by an individual agent;
* Extraction of information from an existing register;
* Primary research using public documents or news sources;
* Verification of identity using official documentation;
* and so on. 

For each source there will be at least one associated **agent** who was involved, such as:

* The person filling in the form;
* The researcher compiling documentation; or
* The organisation responsible for validating documents.

An source may, itself, be derived from some other source as it's input. For example, when a validation process draws upon documents orginally submitted by an individual.

### Provenance block

The provenance building block of the schema can be attached at the ```statementGroup```, ```beneficialOwnershipStatement``` or individual entity, person and qualification statement levels.

Provenance statements can also be chained together using the ```derivedFrom``` property. 

In PROV-DM terms, all the properties within a provenance block attach to the statement they are nested within (i.e. asserting that this statement ```wasAtributedTo``` or ```wasGeneratedBy```). 

```eval_rst
.. csv-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 65 15
   :file: docs/_schema_tables/Provenance.csv
```

```eval_rst

.. note:: 
    
    How should applications interpret the nesting of provenance information?

    For example: does a provenanceStatement attached to a statementGroup apply to all the statements within that group?

```